WinSyslog - Services
====================

Services inside WinSyslog gather or generate the data that is processed by
rules. In plain language, they are the configured inputs and generators inside
the product. For example, the ``Syslog server`` service receives incoming
syslog messages and the Windows Event Log Monitor service reads Windows Event
Log entries.

In this manual, **service** is the main operational term and **input** is the
plain-language concept for the receive side. Some GUI pages still use exact
labels such as ``Syslog server``, ``RELP Listener``, and ``SETP Server`` for
individual service types. Use
:doc:`faq/services-listeners-and-servers` for the terminology mapping.

Typically, there can be multiple instances of the same service running, as long
as their listen settings do not conflict. For example, there can be multiple
syslog input services on a given system as long as they use different port,
address, or transport combinations. For example, there could be three of them:
two on the default port of 514, one with TCP and one with UDP, and a third on
UDP port 10514. All three can coexist and run at the same time.


**The following services are supported:**


**Heartbeat**

This service generates a special information type. Its primary purpose is to
notify a receiving system that WinSyslog, set for heart beating is still alive.
So the receiving system can be configured to raise alarms (or corrective
actions) if it does not receive heartbeats from WinSyslog.


**MonitorWare Echo Reply**

A central agent running WinSyslog is using the echo request and
instructs to poll each of the other WinSyslog services. When the request is not
carried out successfully, an alert is generated. The MonitorWare echo protocol


**RELP Listener**

The ``RELP Listener`` service receives messages over the reliable event logging
protocol (RELP). In practice, it is a network input service for RELP traffic.
It automatically listens on all available IP addresses, including IPv4 and
IPv6, due to the librelp implementation.

Apart from using a different application protocol over TCP, the
``RELP Listener`` service plays the same operational role as the
``Syslog server`` service: it receives incoming events and passes them into a
ruleset.


**SETP server**

Implements the ``SETP Server`` service. It is used to receive event
notifications reliably from compatible Adiscon products and pass them into a
ruleset. In plain language, it is a SETP input service.


**SNMP Trap Receiver**

The ``SNMP Trap Receiver`` service allows you to receive SNMP trap messages.
Roughly speaking, a trap is similar to a syslog message, but it is sent over
SNMP. It is generated by the device when the device decides it should send a
notification, and it includes the information the device wants to transmit,
plus a small set of standard SNMP fields such as version and community.


**Syslog server**

Implements the ``Syslog server`` service. It receives syslog messages and can
listen on any valid port. UDP and TCP communication are supported.

**Event Log Monitor**

Monitors Windows event logs. As soon as new events are detected,
these are forwarded to WinSyslog processing. This service is similar to
the Adiscon EventReporter functionality.


**Associated rulesets**

Each instance of a service has an associated ruleset. This allows easy
creation of customized rulesets on a per-service basis. Of course, multiple
services can also operate on a common ruleset.

All services are executed as multiple threads inside WinSyslog.
From the operating point of view, there is only one system service called the
"WinSyslog". If the service configuration of WinSyslog is
modified, the WinSyslog service needs to be restarted in order to
activate the new configuration. Later releases will have some options to
automate this task.
