:orphan:

.. index:: Event-Specific Properties

Event-Specific Properties
=========================

Each network event is represented by a so-called "Event Record" (sometime also
named an "InfoUnit", an "Unit of Information"). Data obtained from all services
will end up as an event. For example, Windows Event Log data, syslog data, and a
file line obtained by the file monitor will all be an event. That kind of
generalization make it easy to deal with all of these events in a consistent
way.

Each event has a set of properties which in turn have values. For example, there
is a property named "source" and it will always contain an indication of which
system the event originated on. Obviously, not every event source does support
all properties. For example, a syslog message does not contain a Windows Event
ID - simply because there is no such thing as an event ID in syslog. So,
depending on the type of event, it may contain different properties.

In order to make the product really generally useful, some few properties have
been defined in a generic way and are guaranteed to be present in every event,
no matter what type it may have. Sometimes this is a "natural" common property,
like the "fromhost". Sometimes, though, it may look a bit artificial. An
example of the later is the "syslogfacility" property. It is guaranteed to be
present in every event - but actually this is a syslog-only thing. The non-
syslog event sources either emulate this property (in a consistent manner) or
allow the user to configure a syslogfacility that should be used for all events
generated by that service. At the bottom line, this will ensure that the
property is available in all events and - given proper configuration - that can
be extremely helpful for the administrators to set up things in a powerful and
generic way.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   standardproperties
   wineventlogproperties
   wineventlogv2properties
   syslogmessageproperties
   diskspacemonitor
   cpumemorymonitor
   filemonitor
   winservicemonitor
   pingprobe
   portprobe
   databasemonitor
   serialmonitor
   mwechorequest
   ftpprobe
   imapprobe
   nntpprobe
   smtpprobe
   pop3probe
   httpprobe
