:orphan:


.. _glossary-mwconcepts-informationunit:
.. supporting-labels-marker

.. index:: Information Units

Information Units
=================

Information units contain the data gathered by the services. As soon as a
service detects a reportable event, it creates a new information unit. The
information unit contains a textual representation of the event (for example a
syslog message) as well as information about the event itself. For example, it
contains the system that the event was originated from and the date and time it
was received.

Which data is contained in the information unit depends on its type. However,
there are a number of common data elements present in all information units.
Most of these elements can be used as filter conditions in the rule engine.
Information unit specific data elements are not eligible as filter conditions.
However, there are data elements (properties) which are defined to be present
in all information units even though they seem to be specific to a service
type. One example is syslog priority. These values are present in each
information unit type simply because priority is a good abstraction for other
types, too. Such generally available properties are mapped if they are not
directly supported by the service type. In the example, an Event Log Monitor
maps the event log severity to the syslog priority.

There is a direct one-to-one relation between service type and information unit
type. Each service type has its own information unit type.

Inside the rule base, the information unit type itself can be used as a filter
condition. This facilitates creating rules that check information unit type
specific properties only if they originated from the specific service type
(e.g. check syslog priority only if the information unit was generated by a
Syslog server).
